### ABSTRACT

This Standard specifies the architecture and technical requirements for a common identification standard
for Federal employees and contractors. The overall goal is to achieve appropriate security assurance for
multiple applications by efficiently verifying the claimed identity of individuals seeking physical access
to Federally controlled government facilities and logical access to government information systems.

The Standard contains the minimum requirements for a Federal personal identity verification system that
meets the control and security objectives of Homeland Security Presidential Directive-12 [[HSPD-12]](_Appendix/references.md#ref-HSPD-12) 
including identity proofing, registration, and issuance. The Standard also provides detailed specifications
that will support technical interoperability among PIV systems of Federal departments and agencies. It
describes the card elements, system interfaces, and security controls required to securely store, process,
and retrieve identity credentials from the card. The physical card characteristics, storage media, and data
elements that make up identity credentials are specified in this Standard. The interfaces and card
architecture for storing and retrieving identity credentials from a smart card are specified in Special
Publication 800-73, *Interfaces for Personal Identity Verification*. The interfaces and data formats of
biometric information are specified in Special Publication 800-76, *Biometric Specifications for Personal
Identity Verification*. The requirements for cryptographic algorithms are specified in Special Publication
800-78, *Cryptographic Algorithms and Key Sizes for Personal Identity Verification*. The requirements for
the accreditation of the PIV Card issuers are specified in Special Publication 800-79, *Guidelines for the
Accreditation of Personal Identity Verification Card Issuers*. The unique organizational codes for Federal
agencies are assigned in Special Publication 800-87, *Codes for the Identification of Federal and
Federally-Assisted Organizations*. The requirements for card readers are specified in Special Publication
800-96, *PIV Card to Reader Interoperability Guidelines*. The format for encoding the chain-of-trust for
import and export is specified in Special Publication 800-156, *Representation of PIV Chain-of-Trust for
Import and Export*. The requirements for issuing PIV derived credentials are specified in Special
Publication 800-157, *Guidelines for Derived Personal Identity Verification (PIV) Credentials*.

This Standard does not specify access control policies or requirements for Federal departments and
agencies.
